22 Feb 2022, starts to work on Google data analytics certificate.

Week1, 3 main concepts to introduce what data analysis is about.

data analysis process
6 steps:
ask - ask effective questions, Business Challenge/Objective/Question
prepare - prepare timeline, establish rules, decide what data to acquire and how to analyze
process - collect data, clean, restrict, store. maintain integrity.
analyze - explore, visulize, document
share - share to stakeholder
act - implement changes and take actions

data ecosystem
various elements to produce, manage, organize, store, analyze and share data

data driven decision making
-using facts to guide business strategy


Week2, introdue what data analysis skills are about, and how to do analytical thinking

data analysis skills:
5 points, to think of scenario of work when using analysis skill
curiosity - 
understand concept - identify what's relevant and eliminate what's not
technical mindset - break process into steps or pieces
data design - database, how to organize and access
data analysis - managing tool, people, process used.


analytical thinking:
visulization
strategy - focus
problem-oriented - focus on the problem and think of difference angles
correlation - find link
big picture thinking and detailed oriented way of thinking 

core analytical skills:
rootcause? 5 whys
gap?
what was not considered before?



Week3, data life cycle, data analysis tools

data lifecycle: 6 stages
Plan - what, how, who
Capture - collect
Manage - how, where, what tools to maintain
Analyze 
Archive - keep
Destroy - remove

data analysis process in detail:
ask: 1. define problem, 2.understand stakeholder expectations
prepare: collect and store data, define types of data and make sure unbiased
process: clean, format, remove outliers, correct
analyze: using tools to transform, spreadsheet and Sql
share: visualization
act: case study

powerful tools:
spreadsheet
query language
visualization


Week4, data analysis tools introduction
Spreadsheet
Sql: SELECT, FROM, WHERE
  SELECT
    column A,
    column B
  From
    table where the data belongs
  WHERE
    condition A
    AND condition B;
    
Sql syntax
1. WHERE last_name like 'Ch%'
2. Comment is to use '--', like '#' in Python
3. Aliase: last_name AS ln -- aliase for last name
4. <> is not equal sign

Week5, fairness
fairness - inclusive sample populations, social context, and self-reported data, oversampling under-represented group















